 The Tears of Karma Samdrup's Mother 




Karma Samdrup is falsely under arrest, he has been for one year and 5 months already. Do people remember who he is? He is the Karma who is referred to as the “King of Heavenly Beads”, the Karma who set up the first non-governmental environmental protection organisation, the Karma who put a lot of effort into preserving Tibetan collective memories by collecting Tibetan cultural artefacts. Last year in June, during those extremely disturbing days, various accusations were fabricated and made public to frame him, and the law of this country failed to pass a fair and impartial judgement.
It is a forlorn situation. People helplessly witness this miscarriage of justice that had taken place, they witness how those evil creatures who had fabricated Karma’s wrongdoings, sentenced him to an entire 15 years in prison, they witness how he is wrongly put in jail, somewhere far away in the land of sandstorms − Shaya County in Aksu Prefecture, Xinjiang, a county which is just one enormous prison.
Karma was by no means the only person to fall into such imminent danger. Almost at the same time, another man of Karma’s family followed him into jail and was sentenced to reeducation through labour, for a period of no less 5 years. And in the summer of two years ago, evil officials even went to Karma’s hometown, accompanied by military police, and arrested Karma’s older brother Rinchen Samdrup and his younger brother Chime Namgyal, and not only did they ransack chests and cupboards and confiscated possessions, they also used clubs to beat his mother who is over 70 years old. I have seen pictures of the severely injured old woman, her unbelievable swellings, her purple, even suppurated large bruises, the doing of the “People’s Army”.
Recently, I heard some news about Karma’s mother which made me really sad. She only knows that her three sons have been imprisoned but she does not yet know that Karma has been sentenced to such harsh punishment. Nobody dares to tell her the truth, she would not survive it. Karma’s wife, Dolkar Tso, comforts her by telling her that Karma took refuge abroad and his mother always warns her to never let Karma return home. During recent phone calls, she choked with tears; the normally always strong old lady is more and more unable to bear the pain.
It is reported that two years ago, a work team made up from cadres and police was stationed in the village and after the three brothers were arrested, the team used different methods of coercion to isolate Karma’s entire family. For instance, when villagers fall ill and need to go to Chamdo or Lhasa to get treatment, they need to obtain an official approval from the working team, for which the villagers will even have to sign and furnish with a fingerprint a separate document. But what kind of document is this? It contains vast amounts of misinformation vilifying Karma’s family, urges people not to appeal to the higher authorities and forbids anyone to support Karma’s family etc. Any villagers in need of taking out a loan or reissuing a lost ID card will need to face these same demands.
I entrusted someone to go out and ask Dolkar about the situation and she choked with sobs and said only one single sentence: There are only women left at home, why don’t we just give up?
Indeed, this benevolent, widely respected large family has only women left in its household to take care of things. I have previously met Rinchen Samdrup’s daughter who had hoped to leave home and become a nun. She had helped her parents for many years to rescue valuable scriptures but the discs and computers on which they had saved the data were all confiscated by the police. After her father had been sentenced to five years in a Lhasa prison, she was stricken by heart disease at this very young age.
Karma’s wife, Dolkar, tried everything to keep this traumatic shadow away from her two daughters who up to the present day are not aware of the real situation; she also took over a responsibility which she had never shouldered before, carrying on her husband’s business. Besides that, a very important big event in her life is visiting her husband in prison. Since last year, she has already visited Xinjiang eight times. But after Karma was sentenced, over the course of one entire year, she only saw her husband three times in the law court and she could hardly recognise his tortured body.
“During our meeting, we could only communicate in Mandarin”; this does not mean that the Tibetan couple was not capable of communicating in Tibetan, it rather means that the authorities did not allow them to speak Tibetan, so during the half an hour of authorised visiting time, Karma could only use broken Mandarin to talk to his wife. Now Dolkar’s greatest hope is to fight for Karma being transferred to a Tibetan prison to serve his sentence, which would at least allow him to speak Tibetan. But she can only visit her husband once every three months and the last meeting was suddenly cancelled without any reason. She could do nothing but to return her plane ticket that she had bought a long time in advance.
